Along the River, Zion Canyon
Zion National Park, Utah, 2006 View Full Zion Portfolio »

Purchase Info
Print Details
Archival Pigment Ink Print
Limited Edition
Technical Details
ISO 50
Fuji Velvia Film
ƒ32 @ 4 seconds
4x5 R.H. Phillips View Camera
Nikkor-M 300mm f/9
No filter
Notes from the Field (2006)
Along the River is an important moment in my ongoing photographic development. Walking the main canyon road in the heart of Zion National Park, I'd rounded a bend alongside the Virgin River and entered a section that had just slipped into afternoon shadow. Beyond the river and the road, the towering red canyon walls were bathed in direct sunlight which diffused the shadowed section in an enchanting red glow.

Transfixed by this magic light, I halted in my steps. Looking around, my eyes fell on the glowing trunks and dangling dead branches of two closely quartered riverside trees. The recognition of a compositional possibility wholly new to me was instant and emotionally staggering. Nothing before had spoken to me in quite the same way. My immediate reaction was to drop everything and photograph in place. But my training and experience reminded me careful consideration of this new inspiration was warranted.

Placing my gear to the side, I used my hands as a viewing card and explored the scene working hard to find balanced placement of foreground, branches and river that conveyed the elegant power of the scene. Settled, I retrieved my gear, started to set up and realized the enchanting red glow had dissipated. Confounded, I sat down disappointed, but soon realized the image could be made on a subsequent day as long as the weather was clear. I noted the time with a reminder to arrive reasonably earlier to effectively set up and be able to capture the image at the optimum moment of reflected light.

It took two days for the weather to return to sunny skies. I arrived at the scene a good 45 minutes early, mounted my camera into position consistent with the compositional notes I'd made. Shadows encroached and the enchanting red glow returned illuminating the tree trunks and branches, even influencing the blue reflected light in the river. The desired shutter speed balanced nicely with a reasonably sharp aperture. Depressing the cable release was an exceptionally gratifying moment.